you're watching BBC News if you are just
joining us I can tell you that uh us and
UK air strikes have resumed uh in Yemen
this evening there have been strikes in
S at the capital of Yemen and we are
told that us Jets from the carrier
Eisenhower have been involved in those
strikes uh our panel Ron Christi and Tim
Allen uh are still with us um I want to
talk Ron about the the the US military
because two US Navy Seals who went
missing during an operation to see some
of these Iranian made weapons uh that
were Bound for the houthis uh we're told
are dead uh this was the statement we
got from us Central Command um after
10day exhaustive search they say our two
missing US Navy Seals have not been
located and their status has been
changed to deceased that incident wrong
took place uh a few days ago when elite
soldiers were boarding a ship off the
coast of Somalia but we've also been
told that there were
strikes uh on the al-assad airbase in
Iraq in which two uh military personnel
have been very seriously injured and
suddenly we've got American Personnel
dying and being wounded over 140 strikes
on us uh bases and and installations
since October the 7th so slowly but
surely as Lee says this this is starting
to spread and the Americans are being
dragged into
it I think that's absolutely R and I
think Le's analysis here Not only was it
eloquent but I think it really points to
something from a domestic standpoint
here in the United unit states where you
have bipartisan consensus you have
Republicans uh in the Congress who are
saying why are we sending American men
and women to needlessly die overseas
particularly in the disastrous way that
we pulled out of Afghanistan and then
you have more moderate SL Progressive
members like Rana from California uh my
beloved home state and District in
California who a Democrat who has said
why are we not invoking the War Powers
Resolution why is the President coming
to Congress because under our
constitution you have to declare war not
through the president but through the
Congress and why is the president taking
these because he doesn't he doesn't want
to declare award does he's in an
election year and he certainly doesn't
want to be suggesting that he's sending
more troops overseas having brought
troops back from Afghanistan not in an
election year and that's the sticky
situation the president finds himself in
he's wedged in by the Democrats he's
wedged in by conservative Republicans
and he has to work with his British and
other coalition Partners to clearly
articulate as Le said the need to open
the Red Sea the need for shipping to get
through the Suz Canal because otherwise
the costs are going up the supply
disruptions continue to grow and there's
growing sense here in the United States
that the president's not up to the task
the way he's conducting this operation
yeah you you'll have heard um Lee say
that it's it's not going to work there
was some frustration irritation I think
on the part of the White House Tim that
Grant chaps the you UK defense secretary
was sort of almost triumphant in the way
that this was going to work that this
would sort of deal with the issue and
quite clearly it wasn't going to deal
with the issue and of course the
Americans are deeply involved in the
peace plan in Yemen which could unravel
if this
expands yes but I think it's been
interesting how David Cameron has
actually been uh in in Washington um
sort of making the case often uh on
behalf of the American government
sometimes whether it be about uh Ukraine
which is has has been an issue that
where there's been political splits in
the US and concerns about whether there
will be uh enough commitment going
forward for that and it's been Cameron
that has been out there making the case
on on American Media and equally on on
this issue where UK government ministers
are getting involved in on us media
often to be backing up the American
government uh when it is facing internal
uh problems and internal debate and I
think that's going to I think Cameron
himself now as back as the foreign
secretary is going to be increasingly
important having been a former prime
minister he's able to have the
Diplomatic heft to go to a lot of uh
capitals and to get to meet people that
maybe other foreign secretaries wouldn't
uh have got to meet and is becoming
increasingly influential on on putting
the case whether it is on Ukraine or
this it is actually interesting that
it's America it's UK ministers in
America making the case just let me pick
that up we've only got a minute left Le
to the end of the program but just on
that issue do do you think the UK is
influential in this argum
well they want to be seen to be backing
the United States both of them their own
populations stand to Lo are losing in
this Red Sea confrontation but it is the
United States which calls the shots and
the houthis know that m